Now you might not have an Android phone for testing but you need one because Android phones by default
have the Chrome browser which supports all progressive web app features,
so we want to use that. Yes we could install that on iOS but on the iOS simulator, it's actually not as easily
possible
to, well go back to the home screen, install new apps as it is on the Android simulator or to be precise,
there you don't need to do that.
So that's why I'll use Android,
there we have the whole testing set up already working out of the box
and another nice bonus, the Android Studio which I downloaded here, you can find a file with set up instructions
attached to this video, Android Studio works on Mac and Windows,
so that is why I choose that. In there, I will simply create a new application and I don't need to configure
anything special there because I don't really care about the application we create here,
I just want to have an Android application and once the project did open, I'm only interested in one specific
tool which we can find under Tools, Android, the AVD manager which is the device manager because I want
to start a device, a virtual device which allows me to basically test this application.
So let's click this play button here or create a new virtual device where you pick any blueprint you
want to use, I'll stick to the one I already have
to start this virtual device.
Now this will take a couple of seconds,
again you'll find a document where this is explained
attached to this video.
Now I'll be back once this did start up here.
So the device started here on my machine,
now again that's a virtual device,
the cool thing is here we can open Chrome and accept this, thank you and in there, simply open our web
app. Now localhost:8080 won't work here because that refers to the localhost on that simulator
but we can visit 10.0.2.2:8080 which is like a proxy to our localhost on the local
machine
and there you see this application. This application used on the browser a few seconds ago, now running
on a, well real device, on a real simulator of a real device.
Now we want to see if we can actually add it to the home screen and you would be prompted whether you
want to install it or not
after a certain amount of criteria are met,
more about this in the next lecture
but for now, I will simply click add to home screen here and as you can see, this already suggests this
icon and this text which is our short name and if I click add and go back to the home screen, you see
our icon here with our short name. If I click on it, you actually saw this splash screen for a brief
second,
let me quickly dismiss this application and open again,
watch closely,
here's the splash screen and you also see in the task switcher,
here's the Chrome browser
but this is our application,
it has this standalone view with our own theme color in the toolbar.
This is not the Chrome toolbar,
it's our own toolbar with our icon, the short name and a theme color.
So it's not this toolbar,
watch closely,
we have an
icon here,
it's a separate toolbar created by the task switcher
because we did set up an icon, a short name and a theme color and it is displayed next to Chrome,
so it really runs standalone which we specified.
If we switch orientation here,
you see we stick to portrait mode,
no matter how I turn this, even here it doesn't flip because we specified portrait primary.
So this is our web application running on a native device.
Now as I said, we install it manually by clicking add to home screen
but you would also be prompted by the browser if a couple of conditions are fulfilled.
Now why would this be nice?
Because if the browser asks the user if he wants to install it,
well that's obviously much better because here the user has to actively go to the menu and add our page,
well if the browser asks which would be a ribbon coming up from the bottom here, we might be much more
inclined to actually add it. Now I'll show you the conditions and how this banner will look like in the next
lecture.